# Guide for Guides
Welcome to the Guide for Guides!

## How do I help?
We want everyone to feel okay with contributing to anything. Check out the [issues page](https://github.com/github/guides/issues) to see some issues to contribute to. If there's nothing there that piques your interest, you should help us write a guide!

## How should I go about writing a Guide?
Not all of us are wordsmiths, but that's why we're in this together. If there's something you've stumbled upon that you think should be a guide, follow the [steps below](https://github.com/github/guides/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#working-on-your-laptop) to get the repository down on your computer locally and start writing content.

If there isn't a category folder for your file yet, don't fret. Either create one you think is good, or don't worry about it and we can work this out in the pull request.

Once you create your file, there's one important thing to do first, yaml front matter:

```
---
layout: article
title: Mastering Issues & Notifications
read_time: 7 minute
updated_at: Aug 9, 2013
icon: issue-closed
title_sha: d145998e941f058151cadcc7489275a8bb5d31d5
survey_tag: 'issues-1'

summary: GitHub is great for managing all of the information <em>around</em> the code. This guide helps explain our issue tracking system and how to keep up to date with issues you’ve participated in.
---
```

- `layout` should always be `article`.
- `title` is the name of your guide.
- `read_time` is just an estimate. Total word count / 200 is a good rule of thumb.
- `updated_at` will be displayed at the bottom of the guide.
- `icon` is the Octicon that should appear in the banner (see the
[Icon Helper](https://github.com/styleguide/icons) in the Style Guide).
- `title_sha` is a `sha1()` hash of the `title` field. This is used to generate
the color and pattern in the guide's header and it currently needs to be entered
manually. Any `sha1()` tool, such as
[this one](http://www.tools4noobs.com/online_php_functions/sha1/), will suffice.
- `survey_tag` is a custom tag for tracking the survey results that follow at the end of a guide. It should be descriptive and unique.
- `summary` is a short (~2 sentences) overview of the guide. This appears on the
site's landing page.

The body of the guide goes below the `---` line and is formatted with [GFM](https://help.github.com/articles/github-flavored-markdown). Images can be uploaded by dragging them into any comment box on GitHub.com and using the url it uploads to for the guide. Maybe people also use [CloudApp](http://getcloudapp.com/) for image storing as well, though we generally like to store the images under our own domains.

The Table of Contents links that are shown along the right hand side are generated by
placing anchor tags with the desired title before sections. For example,

```
<a id="branch-creation" title="Creating a branch" class="toc-item"></a>
## Creating a branch

Your content here...
```

will create a `Creating a branch` link in the ToC. The `id` can be anything, but be
sure to use `toc-item` for the `class`.

## Working on your laptop
If you want to write code, or write a guide, let's start out with that code on your laptop!

1. Grab the repository: `git clone https://github.com/github/guides`
2. Create a feature branch: `git checkout -b MY-FEATURE`
3. Write your content, fix syntax, add new styles, whatever your change is.
4. When you're ready to get review: `git push -u origin HEAD`
5. Open your pull request and start the conversation

